content/people/001-roee-ozeri.md, before:

---
id: "001-roee-ozeri"
name: "Roee Ozeri"
sort_name: "Ozeri, Roee"
current_position:
  title: "Professor of Physics"
  institution: "Weizmann Institute of Science"
platforms:
  - "Trapped ions"
  - "Optical clocks"
affiliations:
  - name: "Quantum Art"
    role: "Founder"
    type: "company"
location:
  city: "Rehovot"
  region: "Central District"
  country: "Israel"
  lat: 31.8947
  lon: 34.8094
education:
  - degree: "PhD"
    institution: "Weizmann Institute of Science"
    year: 2006
    advisor: "Nir Davidson"
postdocs:
  - institution: "NIST"
    advisor: "David J. Wineland"
keywords:
  - "ion qubits"
  - "quantum metrology"
  - "optical clocks"
links:
  homepage: ""
  google_scholar: ""
  orcid: ""
thesis:
  title: ""
  link: ""
created_at: "2026-01-26"
updated_at: "2026-01-26"
---

Prof. Roee Ozeri leads the trapped-ion and quantum optics group at the Weizmann Institute of Science. His group's research spans ion-based quantum computing, precision optical clocks, and cold atom–ion interactions. He was a postdoctoral researcher in David Wineland's group at NIST before establishing his lab at Weizmann.

## Selected publications (curated)
1. Ozeri, R. et al., _Title_, Journal (Year) — DOI: ...
2. Ozeri, R. et al., _Title_, Journal (Year) — DOI: ...

Commit message:

Revise Roee Ozeri's profile details and research focus
Updated educational background, affiliations, and research focus for Prof. Roee Ozeri. Added links and keywords related to his work in quantum information science.

content/people/001-roee-ozeri.md, after:

---
id: "001-roee-ozeri"
name: "Roee Ozeri"
sort_name: "Ozeri, Roee"
current_position:
  title: "Professor of Physics"
  institution: "Weizmann Institute of Science"
platforms:
  - "Trapped ions"
  - "Optical clocks"
  - "Ultracold atoms"
affiliations:
  - name: "Quantum Art"
    role: "Founder"
    type: "company"
location:
  city: "Rehovot"
  region: "Central District"
  country: "Israel"
  lat: 31.8947
  lon: 34.8094
education:
  - degree: "BSc"
    institution: "Hebrew University of Jerusalem"
  - degree: "MSc"
    institution: "Weizmann Institute of Science"
  - degree: "PhD"
    institution: "Weizmann Institute of Science"
    year: 2006
    advisor: "Nir Davidson"
postdocs:
  - institution: "National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Boulder"
    advisor: "David J. Wineland"
keywords:
  - "trapped-ion quantum computing"
  - "quantum metrology"
  - "optical clocks"
  - "noise mitigation"
  - "decoherence"
links:
  homepage: "http://www.weizmann.ac.il/complex/ozeri/"
  google_scholar: "https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=teWGJhAAAAAJ"
  orcid: "https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7843-8801"
  weizmann_profile: "https://weizmann.elsevierpure.com/en/persons/roee-ozeri"
  iucc_cris: "https://cris.iucc.ac.il/en/persons/roee-ozeri"
  quantum_art: "https://www.quantum-art.tech/team"
thesis:
  title: ""
  link: ""
  note: "PhD thesis not publicly available online; may be accessible via Weizmann Institute library or by request."
created_at: "2026-01-26"
updated_at: "2026-01-27"
---

Prof. Roee Ozeri is an experimental physicist working in atomic physics and quantum information science. He was born in Israel and earned a BSc in Physics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, followed by an MSc and PhD in Physics from the Weizmann Institute of Science.

After completing his PhD, Prof. Ozeri conducted postdoctoral research at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Boulder, Colorado, in the group of David J. Wineland, Nobel Laureate in Physics (2012). Following his postdoctoral work, he joined the faculty of the Weizmann Institute of Science, where he established an experimental research program in trapped ions and ultracold atomic systems.

Prof. Ozeri’s research focuses on quantum information processing with atomic systems, including trapped-ion quantum computing, precision quantum metrology, and ultracold atom–ion interactions. A central theme of his work is the mitigation of noise and decoherence in quantum systems, one of the key challenges in scaling quantum computers to practical sizes.

In addition to his academic research, Prof. Ozeri is a co-founder of Quantum Art, an Israeli quantum computing company developing scalable trapped-ion quantum processors. He has received several prestigious awards, including the Rosa and Emilio Segrè Research Award, the Morris L. Levinson Prize in Physics, and the Rothschild Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship, and serves on the executive boards of the Davidson Institute of Science Education and the Schwartz/Reisman Science Education Center.

## Selected publications (curated)
See full publication list on Google Scholar.
