content/people/008-john-bollinger.md, before:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Boulder
  title: Staff Scientist / Group Lead (Ion Storage Group)
education:
- advisor: Arthur Pipkin
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: Harvard University
  year: 1981
group_type: experimental
id: 008-john-bollinger
ion_species:
- 9Be+
keywords:
- Penning-trap ion crystals
- non-neutral plasmas
- precision measurement
- many-body physics
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  event_bio_uva: https://iop.uva.nl/content/events/2023/11/colloquium-02-11.html
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=u8hdXb0AAAAJ
  orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9117-7896
location:
  city: Boulder
  country: USA
  lat: 40.0094
  lon: -105.2629
  region: Colorado
name: John J. Bollinger
platforms:
- Trapped ions
- Penning traps
postdocs: []
sort_name: Bollinger, John J.
thesis:
  link: null
  note: Thesis title/PDF not filled yet.
  title: null
  year: null
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

John J. Bollinger is a senior experimental physicist at NIST (Boulder) known for work on Penning-trap ion crystals, precision measurement, and strongly-coupled many-body dynamics in trapped-ion systems.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).

Commit message:

Data: Complete metadata for 7 profiles - thesis titles, ORCID IDs, ion species

content/people/008-john-bollinger.md, after:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Boulder
  title: Staff Scientist / Group Lead (Ion Storage Group)
education:
- advisor: Arthur Pipkin
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: Harvard University
  year: 1981
group_type: experimental
id: 008-john-bollinger
ion_species:
- 9Be+
- Mg+
keywords:
- Penning-trap ion crystals
- non-neutral plasmas
- precision measurement
- many-body physics
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  event_bio_uva: https://iop.uva.nl/content/events/2023/11/colloquium-02-11.html
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=u8hdXb0AAAAJ
  orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9117-7896
location:
  city: Boulder
  country: USA
  lat: 40.0094
  lon: -105.2629
  region: Colorado
name: John J. Bollinger
platforms:
- Trapped ions
- Penning traps
postdocs: []
sort_name: Bollinger, John J.
thesis:
  link: null
  title: "Measurement of the 42S1/2-42P1/2 Lamb Shift in He+"
  year: 1981
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

John J. Bollinger is a senior experimental physicist at NIST (Boulder) known for work on Penning-trap ion crystals, precision measurement, and strongly-coupled many-body dynamics in trapped-ion systems.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).
