content/people/009-hartmut-haeffner.md, before:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: University of California, Berkeley
  title: Professor of Physics
education:
- advisor: Günter Werth
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: University of Mainz
  note: Advisor inferred from publications (e.g. PRL 85, 5304) and shared affiliation
    at Mainz; needs independent confirmation.
  year: 2000
group_type: experimental
id: 009-hartmut-haeffner
ion_species: []
keywords:
- trapped ions
- quantum information
- precision measurements
- surface noise
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  berkeley_profile: https://physics.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/hartmut-haeffner
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=ORNi6TwAAAAJ
  quantnet_profile: https://quantnet.lbl.gov/team/hartmut-h%C3%A4ffner
location:
  city: Berkeley
  country: USA
  lat: 37.8719
  lon: -122.2585
  region: California
name: Hartmut Häffner
platforms:
- Trapped ions
postdocs: []
sort_name: Häffner, Hartmut
thesis:
  link: null
  note: Thesis title/PDF not filled yet.
  title: null
  year: null
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

Hartmut Häffner is a professor at UC Berkeley working on trapped-ion quantum science and precision measurement, with interests including reducing surface noise and developing novel trapped-particle platforms.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).

Commit message:

Data: Complete metadata for 7 profiles - thesis titles, ORCID IDs, ion species

content/people/009-hartmut-haeffner.md, after:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: University of California, Berkeley
  title: Professor of Physics
education:
- advisor: Günter Werth
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: University of Mainz
  note: Advisor inferred from publications (e.g. PRL 85, 5304) and shared affiliation
    at Mainz; needs independent confirmation.
  year: 2000
group_type: experimental
id: 009-hartmut-haeffner
ion_species:
- Ca+
keywords:
- trapped ions
- quantum information
- precision measurements
- surface noise
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  berkeley_profile: https://physics.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/hartmut-haeffner
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=ORNi6TwAAAAJ
  orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5113-9622
  quantnet_profile: https://quantnet.lbl.gov/team/hartmut-h%C3%A4ffner
location:
  city: Berkeley
  country: USA
  lat: 37.8719
  lon: -122.2585
  region: California
name: Hartmut Häffner
platforms:
- Trapped ions
postdocs: []
sort_name: Häffner, Hartmut
thesis:
  link: null
  title: "High-accuracy measurement of the magnetic moment anomaly of the electron bound in hydrogenlike carbon"
  year: 2000
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

Hartmut Häffner is a professor at UC Berkeley working on trapped-ion quantum science and precision measurement, with interests including reducing surface noise and developing novel trapped-particle platforms.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).
