content/people/013-ferdinand-schmidt-kaler.md, before:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz
  title: Professor
education:
- advisor: Theodor W. Hänsch
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich
  year: 1992
group_type: experimental
id: 013-ferdinand-schmidt-kaler
ion_species: []
keywords:
- trapped-ion quantum computing
- segmented ion traps
- architectures
- coherence and gate performance
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  dfg_gepris_profile: https://gepris.dfg.de/gepris/person/1260598?language=en
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=de&user=1VkTHB4AAAAJ
  orcid: null
location:
  city: Mainz
  country: Germany
  lat: 49.9929
  lon: 8.2473
  region: Rhineland-Palatinate
name: Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
platforms:
- Trapped ions
postdocs: []
sort_name: Schmidt-Kaler, Ferdinand
thesis:
  link: null
  note: Thesis title/PDF not filled yet.
  title: null
  year: null
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler is a professor at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz working on trapped-ion quantum computing, including segmented-trap technologies, architectures, and improving coherence and gate performance in scalable systems.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).

Commit message:

Data: Complete metadata for 7 profiles - thesis titles, ORCID IDs, ion species

content/people/013-ferdinand-schmidt-kaler.md, after:

---
affiliations: []
created_at: '2026-01-26'
current_position:
  institution: Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz
  title: Professor
education:
- advisor: Theodor W. Hänsch
  degree: PhD (Physics)
  institution: Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich
  year: 1992
group_type: experimental
id: 013-ferdinand-schmidt-kaler
ion_species:
- Ca+
keywords:
- trapped-ion quantum computing
- segmented ion traps
- architectures
- coherence and gate performance
labels:
- Experimental group
links:
  dfg_gepris_profile: https://gepris.dfg.de/gepris/person/1260598?language=en
  google_scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=de&user=1VkTHB4AAAAJ
  orcid: null
location:
  city: Mainz
  country: Germany
  lat: 49.9929
  lon: 8.2473
  region: Rhineland-Palatinate
name: Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
platforms:
- Trapped ions
postdocs: []
sort_name: Schmidt-Kaler, Ferdinand
thesis:
  link: null
  note: "German title: High-resolution spectroscopy of the 1S-2S transition in a cold hydrogen and deuterium atomic beam"
  title: "Hochauflösende Spektroskopie des 1S-2S Übergangs in einem kalten Wasserstoff- und Deuterium-Atomstrahl"
  year: 1992
updated_at: '2026-01-27'
---

Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler is a professor at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz working on trapped-ion quantum computing, including segmented-trap technologies, architectures, and improving coherence and gate performance in scalable systems.

## Publications
See full publication list on Google Scholar (link above).
